hello everyone
my name is keith nolan i'm a cadet
private
my talk today is on the topic of the
military
how many of you out there thought you'd
ever like to join the military
i see a number of you nodding i thought
the same thing ever since i was young
growing up i've always wanted to join
the military
i loved military history and i've read a
great deal on the subject
also i have various family members such
as my grandfather and great uncle who
fought in world war
ii and like them i wanted the same thing
to serve my country
so the question is can i no i can't
why simply because i'm deaf
so regardless of that fact i still had
that longing
to join the military for example
after i graduated from high school three
months before 9 11 occurred
i went to a naval recruiting center with
high hopes of joining the navy
i went in and a strapping naval man
stood up and addressed me
as he was speaking to me it was
impossible for me to read his lips
so i said i'm sorry i'm deaf
he tore off a little piece of paper and
wrote down three words
bad ear disc wall you didn't even fully
spell out disqualified just
bad ear disc wall so
i went on my way and i tried various
locations a number of different
times trying to join but over and over
again i got the same response
sorry or deaf we can't accept you so i
shifted gears and decided to become a
teacher i completed a master's in deaf
education
and taught for almost two years until
this past spring when three things
occurred that changed that course
the first of which was while i was
teaching a high school history class
i lectured on the mexican-american war
the bell had wrung and i was seated at
my desk
when one of my students who is deaf
approached me and said he'd like to join
the military
i said ah sorry you can't you're deaf
then i caught myself it struck me that
all along i'd been told no
i can't and now is perpetuating that
same message to the next generation
my own student that realization had a
large impact that really resonated with
me
now the second thing that happened my
friend had just moved to israel
did you know that in israel they accept
deaf people in the military
how can deaf people be in the military
right could this really be true come on
well i went to israel last summer to see
for myself
having interviewed 10 deaf israeli
soldiers all of those video interviews
and questions i've compiled and the
findings i'll share with you later
thirdly csun here my alma mater had
recently started up an army rotc
program rotc which stands for
reserve officer training corps allows
students working on their college majors
to concurrently participate in rotc
program
upon graduation rotc students have a
military career ready and waiting for
them
so if one joined the army one could
commission as a second lieutenant
that's generally the rotc program here
at csun having learned that i was
intrigued
i already had a profession as a teacher
but i went ahead anyways and sent an
email off to the program
explaining that i was a teacher of the
deaf wonder if i could take a few
classes with them and perhaps share
their lessons with my students
i got an email response back and
surprisingly it was the first time
that i wasn't told sorry no you can't
you're deaf
said well that's interesting i think
maybe we can work something out and you
can take a few classes with us
this was unprecedented so naturally i
was shocked
although i was teaching i decided i had
to grab the opportunity right away and
get my foot in the door
all together that's how it transpired
now with all my life experiences having
talked with all the people
i had and given everything i've read i
decided to write a research paper
called deaf in the military i'll share
with you what those 98 pages entail
here in america we've actually had deaf
soldiers serving in the past
in fact during the texas war of
independence there was a key character
named def smith who made a large
contribution to that war effort
for the american civil war gallaudet
university actually has archived a list
of deaf soldiers
in that war from the north and the south
showing that deaf soldiers were even
fighting against each other
during world war ii there are a few rare
examples of deaf people
who made it into the military at that
time and were able to serve their
country as well history illustrates the
fact that america has had deaf soldiers
in contrast to today
in my paper i also discussed the israeli
soldiers
i learned that they serve in non-combat
roles the deaf soldiers are not on the
front lines engaged in fire
but rather are behind the line serving
in supportive roles
there are plethora of various non-combat
jobs accessible to the deaf
intelligence computer technology map
drawing supply
military dog training the list goes on
the communication between deaf israeli
soldiers and other soldiers who are
hearing
is carried out with the same approaches
deaf people in general use with the
hearing public on a daily basis
you can use your voice lip read gesture
sometimes another soldier knows sign
language and that can be utilized
pen and paper texts computers emails
seriously there's no magic wand
necessary it's the same thing we do
every day
interpreters are used there primarily
for boot camp training for the average
work it's not necessary to have an
interpreter
by your side the israeli army is
comprised of small groups
each of these units with deaf soldiers
have developed their own way of
communicating with each other
so there's no need for interpreters
the top picture is of one soldier i met
the bottom photo is of prime minister
beggin
with a deaf soldier in israel
another part of my paper touches on
disabled soldiers in the u.s
military obviously military work can be
dangerous and involve injury
one example here is captain lucette due
to an explosion he lost his leg
he's recovered and currently has a
prosthetic leg
now that he's strong he's back in combat
still fighting in afghanistan it's
remarkable
and guess what he's not the only one
there are 40 other soldiers like him
amputees who are serving in combat zones
incredible also we have a blind soldier
here
while he was in iraq an explosion from a
suicide car bomber destroyed his
eyesight
he's recovered and hasn't left the army
the army has retained him on active duty
and he's currently running a hospital
for wounded soldiers
i also found out online about another
soldier who's deaf in one ear
he's developed civil programs in iraq
one of which actually started a school
for the deaf in iraq
all of this is incredible but i'm going
to ask
all of you if the us military can retain
their disabled soldiers
why can't they accept disabled citizens
as well
moreover out of all the us military jobs
80 are non-combat positions there are
many jobs that we
and the deaf community can do if i were
to be in the military i'd like to do
intelligence work but there are an array
of other things we can do
such as mechanics finance medicine etc
so to summarize i've presented three
premises to support my argument
the first being israeli defense openly
accepts deaf soldiers if you have the
quality and skills required
they'll take you secondly the us
military has accommodations for
retaining their disabled soldiers and
lastly
80 percent of occupations in the
military are non-combat
now can we deaf americans serve our
country yes of course
absolutely without a doubt
now i'll explain a bit about my
experience in the army rotc which began
last fall
i've been involved with that thus far
and it's still going on now
really i need to preface this by saying
that
this was the first time a battalion had
ever had a deaf cadet
they had never experienced that before
so of course
they were taken back wondering initially
how i would do this or that how we would
communicate and such
which is a natural reaction considering
that many of them had never interacted
with a deaf person prior to me
and plus i was taken back by this it was
the real thing the army i had to learn a
whole new world full of military jargon
with its own culture
and everything so we started out slow
getting to know each other
and learning how to work together
progressively
for example on the first day of class i
had no uniform
so i showed up in regular clothes while
the other cadets were all in uniform
i found out that every morning at 5 30
there was physical training pt on
fridays
there'd be field training labs off
campus and occasionally
we would have weekend training at a
military base so i showed up ready each
morning at 5 30 with all the cadets in
uniform and me and my civilian clothes
they told me hey you know you don't need
to work out you can just simply take
classes
i told them i wanted to anyway they
acknowledged that and i continued to
show up every morning to train
when friday came i asked if i could do
the field training i was told
no just stick with class i insisted that
i wanted to try and
somewhat reluctantly they let me attend
the lab
but only as an observer i would only be
allowed to sit and watch
not participate alright so i showed up
on friday watched as the cadets learned
marching drill commands like how to
stand at attention how to properly
salute and all the basics i had to ask
again
if i could join finally i got to go
ahead and i thought all right so i went
to get in formation i figured
i'd better stand the second line so i
could watch what the cadets were doing
in the row ahead of me
but the officer who opened the door for
me to join the rotc program
spotted me in the back and said hey
uh-uh i want you in the front
you want to be a soldier you got to
learn the commands just like the rest of
them
i'm not going to follow other people
learn it yourself
i thought wow he's viewing me like any
person giving dignity to who i
am i was impressed by that so as the
weeks went by
i still didn't have a uniform i asked if
it would be possible
but i was told it wasn't so i continued
on that way until one day
i was informed that i'd be getting a
uniform
because please i said really why what
changed
i was told we see your motivation you
show up every morning dedicated
and always give 110 effort and they
wanted to give me the uniform
it was remarkable i went to the
warehouse to get my uniform i assumed i
just get a uniform of parrot boots
nothing more
but they filled two duffel bags chock
full of gear
helmet ammo that shovel sleeping bag the
whole nine yards
i was astonished and i have to tell you
each morning i get up and put on my
uniform
i feel privileged it's truly an honor to
wear the uniform
so moving along when it came time to
train at the garrison base
at first i was told i couldn't go there
was concern on the rotc's part
that if the interpreter were to get
injured during the training be a
liability
issue so we had to figure out all those
issues in confusion but we worked it out
and in the end they let me go
that was how events were unfolding i was
being permitted to do more and more
once at the garrison base there was a
time during one of the training days
when a huge
chinook helicopter with its tandem
rotors landed right down to us
forcibly spinning exhilaration in the
air all of us cadets were supposed to be
getting on board
everyone was geared up and ready however
the cadre had decided i wasn't going to
be able to ride the chinook
they were afraid if the pilot shouted
out orders how would i be able to follow
the instructions
i potentially caused a disruption so i
had to stand aside
while the others were filing toward the
helicopter i could see the cadre
huddled up disgusting million over and
at the last minute one of them said come
on get on the helicopter
i rushed over and got in oh it was such
a thrill
and that was a spirit of learning about
and supporting one another that carried
over and since then
i've been involved in everything they do
without any separation
this is where my passion lies i love
them
i'll show you some pictures here brew
and battalion bravo company that's the
name of the group i belong to
the cadre those are the officers and
sergeants who oversee the rotc program
in the beginning you can see it was a
bit of an awkward phase
but once they learn more about me and
what i'm capable of doing there's been
tremendous support and unity
the cadets my fellow peers well when you
train and sweat together you feel the
bond of camaraderie right away
a brother or sisterly cohesiveness makes
them like family
training and military science classes we
learn theories of warfare how to lead
soldiers
do reconnaissance strategies knock out a
bunker
and land navigation where you're finding
your way out in the mountains
as far as accommodations i've been
provided with interpreters
through the national center on deafness
and cod here at csun
and i really have to thank them because
it's hard to find interpreters who are
willing to wake up
at 4 30 in the morning or sometimes even
3 30 in the morning
that's the officer who emailed me back
saying i think you can
have a few classes with us that's
lieutenant mendoza
that's my interpreter there before class
starts this is a picture from last fall
when
we were new to training and this is
lieutenant colonel phelps
this being his name sign he's the
commanding officer of the entire bruin
battalion
every time i see him walk by it's rather
inspiring
i mean the way that he presents himself
you can see
he's the epitome of a soldier plus he
doesn't view me as a deaf person
he looks at my skills and capabilities
instead he's really pushed for me and i
respect him for all that
that's me during one of the exercises
and this is that chinook helicopter
i almost didn't get on every cadet has a
mentor
my mentor is senato
he's a really sharp soldier he teaches
me all the finer points and how to
execute them ideally
this top picture is when a group of us
went to las vegas to compete in a test
to see if we could match the german
troops physical training standards
it involves swimming time sprints
marksmanship and numerous fitness events
i passed them and satisfied the
requirements to be awarded the gold
german armed forces proficiency badge
right here
this is one of the sergeant sergeant
richardson i love this guy he doesn't
take baloney from any of us cadets
here i am one morning when we trekked
seven and a half miles with a forty
pound rucksack in less than two hours
here are a few of my fellow cadets
i've been with them long enough that
i've developed name signs for them
on the right here is trinidad i gave him
this name sign because he's always very
sarcastic
he's a veteran having served in iraq and
afghanistan
the female is frigo whose nickname is
refrigerator hence her name
sign we're always competing
intellectually in class the cadet on the
end
is jarvie he's a top athlete and i've
given him this sign because
of the scar he has here do you know who
this is
this is the chairman of the joint chiefs
of staff
he is the highest ranking military
officer and principal military adviser
to president obama
and secretary of defense gates he gave a
talk at ucla to a full house afterwards
i lined up to shake his hand
having done so i greeted him it's a
great pleasure to meet you
i sign in my interpreter voice for me
then admiral mullen turned to the
interpreter and said it's nice to meet
you
addressing the interpreter who refrained
to clarify
he seemed a little confused and he just
quickly moved on to shake hands with the
rest of the soldiers so
i'm not sure whether he really knew that
i'm deaf or not
so everything's been moving along gung
ho full speed ahead
until two weeks ago was it last week
knows two weeks ago
when something occurred well the rotc
has four levels
i'm currently doing the first two levels
now which finishes up this may
the third level will begin in the fall
but in order to move up you need to pass
a medical exam
obviously i'm deaf so i'd fail a hearing
test
so we sat down and i was told
if i wanted to continue to the third
level i couldn't do
any of the pt workouts in the morning
nor the friday lab field trainings
nor the army-based trainings my uniform
i'd have to give back as well
i could take the classes audit them and
that's all
it really hit me it was a huge blow
many of the officers and cadets have
emphasized with this sudden shock of
disappointment
and wondering why this has to be the
case
colonel phelps has tried to speak with
the higher-ups in the chain of command
and explain to them that i'm one of the
top cadets having passed all the events
and receiving high marks on my exams but
their response is unwavering
policy is policy and if you're deaf
you're disqualified
i know that the cadre have tried to find
various ways
they found out that there is a deaf
cadet at the citadel
the military college of south carolina
that particular cadet will be completing
his fourth year there and graduating
this may
yet he's in the same predicament that
i'm in unable to join the army because
he's deaf
yet all of my fellow cadets and the
officers have told me not to give up the
policy must change
i was advised to talk with my
congressman and i've brought this issue
to henry waxman the district congressman
here in la
to get the ball rolling with his
advocacy for my cause however i need
your help and support to lobby
all of us you know if you remember back
in u.s history
african-americans were told they
couldn't join the military and now they
serve
women as well were banned but now
they've been allowed the military hasn't
is changing
today is our time now is our turn hua